Writing programs or programming is a very creative
and rewarding activity  You can write programs for
many reasons ranging from making your living to solving
a difficult data analysis problem to having fun to helping
someone else solve a problem  This book assumes that
{\em everyone} needs to know how to program and that once
you know how to program, you will figure out what you want
to do with your newfound skills

We are surrounded in our daily lives with computers ranging
from laptops to cell phones  We can think of these computers
as our personal assistants who can take care of many things
on our behalf  The hardware in our current-day computers
is essentially built to continuously ask us the question
What would you like me to do next

Our computers are fast and have vasts amounts of memory and 
could be very helpful to us if we only knew the language to 
speak to explain to the computer what we would like it to 
do next If we knew this language we could tell the 
computer to do tasks on our behalf that were reptitive  
Interestingly, the kinds of things computers can do best
are often the kinds of things that we humans find boring
and mind-numbing

Computer programming is the process of designing and building 
an executable computer program to accomplish a specific computing
result or to perform a specific task. Programming involves 
tasks such as: analysis, generating algorithms, profiling 
algorithms' accuracy and resource consumption, and the 
implementation of algorithms in a chosen programming language
(commonly referred to as coding).[1][2] The source code of 
a program is written in one or more languages that are 
intelligible to programmers, rather than machine code, which 
is directly executed by the central processing unit. 
The purpose of programming is to find a sequence of instructions
that will automate the performance of a task (which can be as 
complex as an operating system) on a computer, often for 
solving a given problem. Proficient programming thus often 
requires expertise in several different subjects, including 
knowledge of the application domain, specialized algorithms, 
and formal logic.

Tasks accompanying and related to programming include: testing,
debugging, source code maintenance, implementation of build 
systems, and management of derived artifacts, such as the machine
code of computer programs. These might be considered part of 
the programming process, but often the term software development
is used for this larger process with the term programming, 
implementation, or coding reserved for the actual writing of 
code. Software engineering combines engineering techniques with 
software development practices. Reverse engineering is a related 
process used by designers, analysts and programmers to
understand and re-create/re-implement.

The cat stretched.
Jacob stood on his tiptoes.
The car turned the corner.
Kelly twirled in circles.
She opened the door.
Aaron made a picture.
I'm sorry.
I danced.

Run!
Open the jar carefully.
Read the directions.
Don't cry.
Use common sense.
Make the best of things.
Catch up!

Sarah and Ira drove to the store.
Jenny and I opened all the gifts.
The cat and dog ate.
My parents and I went to a movie.
Mrs. Juarez and Mr. Smith are dancing gracefully.
Samantha, Elizabeth, and Joan are on the committee.
The ham, green beans, mashed potatoes, and corn are gluten-free.
The paper and pencil sat idle on the desk.

Misha walked and looked around.
My mother hemmed and hawed over where to go for dinner.
He was eating and talking.
I rinsed and dried the dishes.
Joe stood up and spoke to the crowd.

The mangy, scrawny stray dog hurriedly gobbled down the grain-free, 
organic dog food.
I quickly put on my red winter jacket, black snow pants, 
waterproof boots, homemade mittens, and handknit scarf.
The incessant ticking and chiming echoed off the weathered walls 
of the clock repair shop.
Nervously, I unfolded the wrinkled and stained letter from my 
long-dead ancestor.
Into the suitcase, I carelessly threw a pair of ripped jeans, my 
favorite sweater from high school, an old pair of tube socks with 
stripes, and $20,000 in cash.

"The Spirits of All Three shall strive within me." 
A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens
"I was the more deceived." 
Ophelia in Hamlet by William Shakespeare
"Neither boy spoke." 
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer by Mark Twain
"Call me Ishmael." 
Moby Dick by Herman Melville